From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists and Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 81 recorded
live Thursday, August 25th, 2011. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Telerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
application online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Jeremy Kratz
about the design process. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hanselminutes.
And today I'm sitting down
with designer Jeremy Kratz where
we talk a little bit
about some of the work
that he's done for me
on the recent site design
and some of the things
that he's been teaching me
about design, as well as
learning about mobile and doing
progressive enhancement. Thanks a lot
for taking the time for
me. Hey, thanks for having
me. I called you and
you do, you do design
work and I said, I
want to quote, how does
that usually work? I know
that, I mean, I'm a
little more technical than maybe
the average person that would
call you and ask for
a quote, do people call
and describe emotions or do
people call and give you
a picture and say, make
it look and feel like
this, or did they micromanage,
or did they paint a
picture? How do you, how
do you start that interaction
when a designer starts working
first with a new client?
Well, typically what I like
to do is I like
to schedule a time where
I can have a call
with them or better yet
even sit down with them
in person and kind of
get their, get their thoughts
as to what, what they
want their sites to do.
Sometimes they'll explain that with
emotional words. Sometimes they'll just
have other sites that they've
seen, that they liked the
style of a and they'll,
they'll send me those. I
really depends on the client
and exactly how much thought
they may put into it
ahead of time, based on,
based on whether or not
they have a site already
and some changes they would
like to see, or if
they're just starting from scratch.
So it really kind of
depends on who I'm talking
to as to how much
information they give me a
broad, are there certain kinds
of people that, you know,
are going to be a
problem, just even in the
initial interaction that you say,
all this is going to
be high maintenance, and he's
going to tell me down
to the pixel. Sometimes, sometimes
it is very easy to
see that, especially if they
have, you know, just, just
one side and, and, you
know, bad, bad keywords in
my mind, or I want
it to look exactly like
this, or, you know, I
want it to be the
Facebook of something. So usually
if they have a very
specific design in mind, it's
kind of hard to convince
them that, that maybe they
don't want a site that
looks exactly like someone else's.
Did they give you inspiration?
I know that when people
are designing rooms and designing
and doing interior design, they'll
bring in like color squashes
and things like that. Yes.
Some people do do provide
cover swatches, and that's always
great because that gives me
an idea as to kind
of the, the style, the
aesthetic that they lie. So
I do appreciate having those
points to jump off on
With, with my site. I
think I, what did I
say? I think I was
looking for organic light fresh.
What was some of the
things that I said to
get you started? Cause I
want to understand what that
process was like for you.
And when you knew you
had it, You mentioned, you
know, organic, fresh, natural kind
of earth tones, as far
as colors go. That made
me kind of think, you
know, you're, you're wanting to,
to have a personal connection
to the, to the visitors
on your side, you don't
want something that's cold something.
That's, that's very corporate. So
I kinda took those colors
and kind of experimented. And
I thought one of the,
one of the ways that,
that we can try to
accomplish that was also kind
of through the topography of
your, your main title. So
your new logo that came
with the side, I tried
to find a font that
was professional that had a
little bit of personality with
it. And then you'll notice
that each line is kind
of a different style, the
same fonts at different sizes
in different weights. And it
kind of mixes it up
a little bit. Like it
gives it a little bit
of variety so that it's
not quite as stuffy. Yeah.
It's funny. One of the
things that I found was
that people will not tell
you how bad your site
was until you get it
redesigned. And then you're like,
Oh man, you had a
problem. That was it. That
was awful. Well, people are
very honest on the internet.
And especially when it comes
to, to a new look
for something that they're very
familiar with. So they, they
will definitely not hold back
when something changes. Yeah. I
think I was taking a
chance because of course, people
don't like you to move
their cheese. What was the,
what was the issue with?
There was a group called
Gawker that did a number
of websites and they went
through a recent redesign. I'm
sure that was big in
the design community. What, what
happened there when they went?
That was definitely huge. That
was a, I think what
happened is, is that they
saw, you know, the tablets
market really shoot up. And
I think that's, that's kind
of their goal was to
focus on that because a
lot of their redesign was
focused on interactions with, with
JavaScript. So they know all
the scrolling was, was not
necessarily handled natively by the
browser, but if they use
a builtin scroll and I
think that was the main
that people had was that
the site didn't behave like
a typical blog would, they
were trying to manipulate the
way that the site work
to sit on a tablet
device. And maybe people typically
expect, you know, when they
scroll to get a natural
scroll from the web browser,
but I think they're redesigned.
They approached it more from
a specific devices functionality, and
maybe, maybe their audience wasn't
really onboard with that. So
there's when you redesign a
site, there's the design, there's
the fonts, the look, the
white space, the way the
lot of things line up.
And then there's the interaction
design. The Gawker sites aren't
necessarily ugly. So it's the
interaction design that they really,
they failed on the interaction
model, the user experience. Exactly.
And if you look at
something like Google does several
progressive enhancements to their sites,
constantly that they made a
really big one for them
a few weeks ago, when
they, when they launched Google
plus, you know, the, the
title links across the very
top of the browser, they
changed that from like a
white background to a really
dark gray. They don't necessarily
change the way the site
functions as much as they
continually try to freshen it
up, try to improve the
user interface, but they're not
actually changing the way users
interact with the content so
often. So from, from that
viewpoint, I think their users
are more acceptive to change
because it's, it's slower and
it's not as jarring, but
once it's somewhat Gawker happens
when you just load the
site one day and it
is completely different, then people
are just completely lost and
they're more prone to, to
abandon the side or we're
trying to find another way
to get the content. Exactly.
Exactly. Now back to my
site, when you, when you
started designing some of the
things that were constraints were
that I wanted to use
my existing blog engine, I
had actually been putting off
doing this redesign because I'd
always thought that the only
log engine that was going
to give me the flexibility
to do a new and
fresh, you know, good looking
modern looking site was going
to be like a WordPress
or one of the new
asp.net blogs. You know, I'm
using DAS blog and toss
blog is based on asp.net
one. We've upgraded it since
to 3.5, but it's, it's
got some old thinking. It's,
it's less about the technology
and more about, you know,
just older thinking about how
stuff works. It had mobile
browser sniffing that I had
put in in 2006. So
it was actually swapping out
the markup for mobile. It
has some, some hard coded
tables, some interesting use of
inline styles. When I had
come to you and said,
I want to redesign the
site, but you have to
use this existing templating engine.
How often does a constraint
like that come along and
does it really oppress you
or do you not sweat
it when creating a new
design? I actually kind of
enjoy when someone comes to
me and says, we have
an existing system, we want
to use the existing system.
We don't want to rethink
the way everything works. We
would just like to kind
of reorganize the UI. I
kinda like those constraints to
sit in because then it,
the project is not quite
so broad. I can, I
can focus on making the
interaction with the system better
than trying to rethink of
how a system would be
built from the ground up.
So when you came to
me and said, you know,
I'm using gospel, I had
never actually worked with dos
blog before, but I, I
installed it, downloaded it. And
then I, the first thing
I did was, was stripped
out the same completely just
to see what the, what
the raw market looked like.
And luckily there is a
lot of flexibility. There wasn't
a lot of flexibility in
the templates. So it was,
it was pretty easy to,
to apply the styles that
we need the CSS and
to give it some new
flexibility. So, you know, I,
I think it works great.
And I think that it's
going to continue to work
great for as long as
you need that particular platform.
So let's walk, let's walk
through the process here together.
Cause I think what's significant.
What you just said was
that you, you stripped everything
out first, so you, you
installed us blog. I gave
you a couple of weeks
worth of my content so
that you were basically running
a local version of, of
my site, which meant that
you could change the templates
and work, you know, kind
of interactively right there on
your local machine. You stripped
everything out. So you made
like just a white background,
black text. And did you
apply reset style sheets or
what did, what did you
do to clear the pallet?
Sure. What I typically do
in a project, like I
said, is, is scripted out,
get rid of any existing
styles. I always use Eric Myers,
CSS reset, which is a
great tool. It just makes
sure that, you know, margins
and paddings, they're all consistently
reset. And then I just
kinda went from there. I
spent a few days trying
to sketch out ideas for,
you know, how you want
your hair to look how
I'd want the sidebar to
look, but I kinda ran
into a dead end. So
what I started doing, what
I typically try to do
in situations like that is,
is to kind of step
back and plan a little
better. So what I did
in that case for you
is I looked at your
old site and I wrote
down, you know, every link
that you had in the
header, every section that you
had in your sidebar and
then your footer. So I
tried to kind of focus
on what information you had
already and how I might
be able to better organize
that. So then from there,
I just kinda started trying
to group things, draw some
boxes around areas, try to
figure out how everything should
be categorized. One of the
issues that you brought up
in our initial conversation was
that maybe when, when new
visitors come to the site,
they don't immediately understand what
it is you do and,
and what all the content
you have available on your
site is. So to address
that, I just tried to
kind of group your main
navigation into the, the top
areas that you focus on.
So we kind of put
the, you know, the, the
about, or the info section,
and then we had your,
your list of podcasts and
your speaking and your books.
And then from there, it
just really naturally evolved into
that top navigation and then
putting in the search functionality
below that just really finished
it out and made it
line up with the logo.
And then from there, luckily
it was, it was a
pretty standard blog design with,
with the main column bar
and then a sidebar. And
it just really kind of
took off from there. So
there was that one, one
moment where it just kinda
clicked. And in your case,
that was with your, your
main navigation. Yeah. And I've
actually had interesting feedback. I've
had a couple of friends
call and say, they didn't
like the top navigation. They
said that they prefer these
kind of new style WordPress
sites where you show up
and they use a lot
of vertical space and they
have, you know, big evocative
photography or a giant picture
of yourself. And there are
many, many really cool blogs
that have a very minimal
style. You know, some, the
only bit of even remotely
negative feedback I've had on
the site was that, wow,
there's a lot of links,
but I just can't get
my self to let go
of the fact that if
I show up on a
blog and it's a white
background and black text, and
it's just like the latest
article, there's no sense of
scope. There's no sense of
depth. There's no, I don't
know if this person's been
here blogging for 10 years
or if they just showed
up last week. So it
was important to me to
show a sense of depth
to the, you know, to
the site. I agree. And
I, and in your case,
you write about a lot
of technical subjects. You've got
lots of diagrams, you have
lots of figures that you
referenced in your posts. And
I feel like the minimal
style works well, maybe more
for nontechnical posts without a
lot of diagrams. So, you
know, I think that, that
the, the solution that we
ended up with works well
for your audience and for
the, for the message you're
trying to get across. One
of the things that we
started getting into also was
fitting all of this onto
the screen. For example, I
wanted it to look good
in an iPad. We actually
didn't talk about mobile until
later we had headed as
a, as a, as a
goal, but I'm on a
30 inch monitor, but I
did some research and I
actually have blogged about this
to find out who's on
my site, you know, and
there's enough people at 1280
or 1,024 resolution that I
wanted things to be, to
be flexible. When you were
sketching out your design, how
do you make a design
that is going to work
on a 30 inch monitor?
And I was going, gonna
work on a 400 pixel
wide phone. Well, luckily it
was really good timing. I
had just finished a book
called responsive web design by
Ethan Moore. And he in his
book steps through the process
of, of designing for those
three different areas where you
need to do more than
three, but three is the
typical example. You've got your
widescreen and you've got your
tablet, and then you've got
your, your phone device. And
really, I think the first
step that we we tried
to do was the tablet
sized device. And that was
as simple as just removing
the sidebar and making that,
that, that main content fill
the entire screen. And then
from there, it was really
just kind of, retweaking the
way the top menu worked
to work on, on phone
size devices. Cause there just
simply isn't enough screen real
estate. So for your site,
I really approached it first
from that widescreen perspective. And
here's all the information. And
then we thought about what
can we remove as users
screen sizes, scale down, Commented
on, on Twitter a while
back though that sometimes people
do the opposite. They start
with a mobile site and
then they add things. So
for example, this particular design,
well only 8% of people
who visit my blog use
mobile devices, which I think
is, you know, it's reasonable
that it's nice that we're
catering to those people. They
are going to have to
download some of that. Aren't
they? I mean, if something
is said to display, none
are my video images and
thumbnails going to, to show
up and be downloaded, or
if they're not shown, are
they spending their mobile bandwidth
on that? Technically I don't
believe like your images or
your video will actually be
downloaded unless it's displayed. I'm
not, I'm not very well
be wrong about that, but
I don't believe that's the
case, but that being said,
there, there is a really
strong movement for doing mobile
first design, just to make
sure that at the very
lowest level, your sites is,
is very well thought out
in that you're, you're expecting
user experiences, you know, from
the phone tablet and, and
large screen on. So that's,
that's kind of an approach
where you want to, you
want to start small. So
the plan at every step.
So it's definitely a valid
approach. Hi, this is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles,
get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse.
It's an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool that makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team. Even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health and
philosophy project. See if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank Tellerik for supporting
Hansel minutes on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K Keller. We
do appreciate it. There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes. If
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us
as a, as a designer
who is, who's probably getting
quotes to do mobile sites
and talking to people who
are interested in mobile, or
are you thinking that you're
going to switch from a,
I mean, our sites really
progressive, degrade meant are degrading
rather than it is progressive
enhancement. But do you think
that you'll switch and go
to a mobile only way
to do things? Is it
mobile that significant? Do you
think? I think it's definitely
that significant. The next site
that I do, I would,
I would love to try
the mobile first approach and
just kind of see how
that works with not workflow,
but from here on out,
I really don't see very
much of a reason to
ever do a site that
is, is not a scalable
on all devices. I think,
I think that's definitely the
way to go. How much
time did you spend when
you did your design, you
sketched it out and you
said that you then switched
in to, to a, to
a blank, a plain DAS
blog. Did you, did you
do other versions? You didn't
show me, I wanna understand,
like, did this progress or
once you found it and
you kind of found the
voice that you just kind
of ran with it? Well,
like I said, I had
an idea in my head
when I first started sketching.
I kinda mopped that up
a little bit in Photoshop,
but I just couldn't make
it work very well. So
I didn't move from Photoshop
into actual HTML and CSS.
At that point, it was
only after I kind of
grouped everything together, came up
with the idea for the
main navigation that I actually
started implementing that in the,
in the DAS blog engine.
And then from there, it's
just kind of the, the
one thing that I stuck
with, I kept tweaking what
already had on that layout.
And it just kinda grew
from there. And it seemed
to be the correct way
to approach it. I talked
a little bit about how
developers don't, don't do a
very good job of, of
designing. And honestly, the reason
that I came to you
and came said, I need
to go out there and
pay a designer to do
this. Is that I just
am not a designer. It
sounds like an obvious statement,
but I thought I could
do this. I said to
myself, you know, I may
not be a designer. You
know, I can lay things
out and make them make
them look pretty decent, but
it just never quite looked
right. And then I noticed
a comment in the, in
the initial blog post, when
I said here's the new
design. And it was a
compliment from another designer who
is saying that it was
more than just a background
image or header. They said
that it was consistency of
whitespace. It was lines. It
was, you used a bunch
of designer designer language that
basically said that there was
theory behind visual hierarchy, alignment,
consistency, balance, appropriate white space,
color choices. These are all
principles that you learn in
some school. Are these things
that you come built in
with that I don't have.
I think a lot of
it, you definitely can learn.
I think, I think a
good art school, a good
graphic design program will teach
you the fundamentals of, of
alignment and spacing and, and
the very basics. But then
I think designers have to
develop their own sense of
style. So just because every
everything on your page is
properly lined and, and properly
spaced doesn't mean that there's,
there's not something else. Some
step that you can take
further, that's not necessarily written
down and you were in
a book. And I think
a lot of that has
to do with the type
of emotion that you're trying
to get across. So yes,
you can learn a vast
majority of it, but I
think there's always that, that
personalization that really makes everything
come together makes it, makes
the design more than just
a series of rules that
you've, that you've tried to
follow. It makes it, I
guess, you'd say more than,
than the sum of its
parts, the whole, the whole
design. Just, there's always something
that you can add to
it, to kind of take
it a little bit further.
Do you do this stuff
in Photoshop? Cause you said
that you went to a
pencil first, you'd be where
you were designing and sketching,
but then did you, did
you mock up? Cause I
know that there are, there
are those designers that basically
do everything in Photoshop because
it releases them from any,
any constraints. But then I've
also heard some designers do
all their work in CSS
directly so that they don't
design themselves into a corner.
Sure. I actually start, you
know, with a legal pad
or just a notebook. And
I try to sketch out
the, the very basic UI
when I had an idea
of, in my mind of
where I want to go
next, then I'll typically you
want to Photoshop and do
a quick mock up, but
I try to get into
the browser as quickly as
I can just so that
I know that it's going
to look exactly like it
will look at the end.
So a lot of times
I've, I've gone on the
road of working in Photoshop
for, for several hours, getting
everything correctly. And then there's,
there's always something that's just
slightly off, like the anti-aliasing
on the fonts and Photoshop.
Isn't exactly as, as it
is, you know, in windows
or on a Mac, it's
not quite the same and
sometimes a small change like
that can really affect the
direction that you go down.
So I always try to
jump into the browser and
start coding as soon as
I have a general idea
of where I want to
go. There are a couple
of little tiny things that
you've done on the, on
the blog that, that surprised
me, the little tiny things.
Like, for example, I, I
had mentioned that I wanted
it to be personal, to
connect with the, with the
audience. So when you have
the comments box at the
below each title, you have
like a little, a little
tiny arrow as if, as
if it's a, a comic
book balloon as if it's
coming out of, you know,
coming out of our mouths.
When, when my, the little
tweet, my latest tweet that
is over on the about
Scott section also has that
little triangle kind of an
evocative arrow. That's implying that
this box is being spoken
by this person. Those seems
like the kinds of things
that I would design in
Photoshop or on pencil. And
then, and then give up
because they're, these, these are
probably like eight by eight
pixels. It's so subtle. It's
so small. I honestly wouldn't
even know where to start
to create something like that.
How did you, how did
you do that? Well, you,
you had, like you said,
you had specifically mentioned that
maybe comments, the comments link
was kind of getting lost.
So the first thing I
did was, was, you know,
make a box for the
comments and give it a
really bold color. And it
was just a one off
kind of glance. I noticed
that, you know, if I
had up put a tail
on this and it'll, you
know, it'll look like a
word bubble and, and that
works well with your comments.
So, you know, then jumped
into Photoshop and made the
little arrow graphic and, and
applied it. And then later
on when we integrated the
Twitter feed, it's I just
tried to repeat what I
had done in the main
bar to give it some
consistency. And that's not one
of those tenets of graphic
design is, is that it,
anytime that you can repeat
an element, you're going to
make it stronger. The design
as a whole will be
stronger. So I just used
the exact same graphic, added
an outline around it, flipped
it over and then, and
then moved it over into
the sidebar. So it, it
really wasn't planned from the
start. It was just one
of those things that cropped
up along as, as I
was working that I thought
would be a good idea
to try. And it, it
kinda stuck. Yeah. It looks
like you did it with
just as a background graphic,
basically a CSS rule that
said this element should have
a background graphic that's located
kind of roughly in this
area. That's right. It's, it's
just a little, a little
trick where the, the graphic
is actually a white and
bar. And then the, the
tail is, is just a
knockout of transparent pixels in
that shape. And then the
rule that we apply in
CSS is just to put
that background image at the
very bottom of whatever container
you're in and then whatever
background color that container has
that little arrow will show
through. So it's kind of
a, it's just a mask
image. And that gives you
the flexibility of changing that
comments color, for example, to
anything you want and always
work with the, with the
word bubble arrow. See, that's,
that's, that's really interesting because
my there's, there's two things
there that are interesting first
it's, it's a, it's a
clever design, it's a clever
element, but you didn't just
make an orange triangle, which
is totally what I would
do. You made a transparent
mask, basically. I mean, just
the fact that you said
I could change the color
later is really interesting because
in the other element of
the, the navigation bar, when
we came up with a
way for it to work
on a mobile browser, basically
if you resize the page
small enough, and you squish
that top navigation it'll collapse
into a dropdown, which is
more appropriate for a mobile,
you didn't just, hard-code the
menu again, and a dropdown.
You had a little bit
of JavaScript that would literally
take that menu and chop
it up. So then a
couple of days ago when
I updated the menu, I
did not have to go
and update that. So there's
some clever, not repeating yourself
kind of techniques and in
the design as well, that
I don't know if that's
your, you being a really
good designer or you being
a clever coder. I don't
think I would have done
that. I would've probably made
a little orange triangle and
I probably would have doubled
up and created the menu
in entire second time. So
good on you for doing
that. Oh, thanks. I think
that's, that's one of the,
it's one of the things
you get from, from doing
web design for a while
is that you're always trying
to be as flexible as
possible. So, you know, using
CSS is great because we
can just have these rules
that, you know, and can
adapt. And any, anytime that,
you know, I use a
color or that I use
a graphic, I always think,
you know, what, if the
client is going to want
to change this later, what's
going to be a less
work on me and the
less work on them. And
that's the, that's the solution
we want to go with.
So, so yeah, absolutely. I
always try to keep those
things in mind. So kind
of walking more through the,
through the process, you moved
into the browser as quickly
as possible. You started laying
out elements from your, your
sketches and your Photoshops. You
chopped up graphics, and there's
actually surprisingly few graphics in
this particular thing. There's some
couple of lines. There's a
couple of triangles. There's the
logo. There's very little here.
It's mostly texts, which I,
if I remember correctly, that
was also one of our
design tenants. Was it to
be a type, a graphy
friendly template as opposed to
an image heavy template? That's
right. Yeah. So I always
try to use it as
few images as possible, always
like for the browser to
do the heavy lifting. So,
you know, if I have
a border, I'll always try
to use the browser order
CSS property instead of, you
know, designing a border or
a fancier border in Photoshop,
and then trying to pull
that in. So I always
try to make my Mark
up as small as possible,
and then my CSS as
small as possible, and to
use as few images as
I possibly can. And that's
just from an effort to,
to make things more flexible,
to make things load faster
and, and to make maintenance
as, as low as possible.
And I've been trying it
on a bunch of different
browsers and I'm finding that
it looks surprisingly good on
browsers. I never even thought
about like this works in
. I don't even think
you went out of your
way to make it look
good on ice . Is
that as a result of
the reset CSS that you
use from Eric Meyer, or is
that a re as a
result of you avoiding certain
CSS tricks that, you know,
we're, we're, we're edgy for
lack of a better, That's
definitely a combination of both.
So the CSS reset definitely
make sure that, you know,
all the line Heights in
the Morgan and the padding
or consistent on all browsers.
But then I try to,
through a few years of
experience, I know certain, certain
CSS styles to kind of
avoid, because I know that
they're, they may be problematic
in older versions of IE
older versions of other browsers.
So I have a few
that I just kind of
stick with when I want
to accomplish something. And they
typically manage to scale down
pretty well as far as
going back to previous versions.
So that's just kind of
a goal that I always
have in mind is, is
to not necessarily do something
that may not be, may
not adapt properly to older
browsers. Yeah. It's, it's been
impressive. Actually, the things that
aren't working are some of
my older things like my
code blocks, I think we
talked a little about that.
I had to put in
a, a bit of a
hack to force my code
blocks, which use a thing
called syntax highlighter, that converts
pre's into syntax, highlighted code.
It looks a little bit
weird on, on iPhones and
iPads. It ends up basically
they take the pre, they
parse the code, they color
it, and they squish it
back in as a bunch
of tables and stuff. It
looks great on a desktop.
It looks consistent on the
desktop. It looks weird remotely.
So there's little islands where
you can actually kind of
see Scott through Jeremy, if
you know what I'm saying,
like the site's clean, the
site's clean, and then you
go and hit an old
post with some, some foolish
inline font that, that I
threw in and you go,
Oh, okay. There, Scott, You
can't necessarily account for anything.
Especially when, when users are
generating the content, they just
kind of have to, you
know, do your best. And
then if things like that
crop up and you know,
no big deal. Well, one
of the things that we
talked about on the blog
was hiring a designer. Yeah.
People have said sometimes that,
that a famous bloggers are
quote, unquote, big bloggers will
put out a call and
say, Hey, redesign my blog
for free. And I'll give
you free advertising. And a
lot of designers, I used
to be a popular thing
in the nineties and early
two thousands. And when people
pushed back on that and
they said that that devalues
design, as like, as a
concept, like, like really will
design for food is somehow
appropriate. What do you feel
about that? That kind of
thing? Oh, I absolutely agree
with the holes, no spec,
no speculative work movement that
that being said, unfortunately, you
go to my site and
you'll notice that I've participated
in those earlier in my
career. And so, you know,
it's, it's something that I
don't really want to do
going forward. I think it's
typically a bad idea for
a, a company that, that
actually can hire a designer.
So they have the capability
of doing it, but they
just maybe don't see the
value in doing that. If
they can try to get
it for free some design
contests, you know, by nonprofit
companies that have, you know,
a good goal and maybe
don't have the funding that,
that may be a route
they want to go down.
But I, I don't agree
with, with someone trying to
get speculative work just because
they either don't see the
value in it, or they
don't want to spend the
money. So I would say
generally I'm definitely opposed to
it, but there are certain
cases where, you know, that
might be appropriate for a,
for company to do. And
kind of in, in conclusion,
what do you say to
people who are looking to
engage with the designer about
who may not necessarily agree
that there's, that there's value
there? I mean, how do
you, how do you sell
your value proposition? Cause I'm,
I admit I'm the first
guy who went and tried
to do this kind of
work myself and I am
sold. I mean, I, I
will engage a designer earlier
in projects now and early
and often. Well, I think
it's, it's kind of convincing
someone that, that there is
that element that they may
miss out on, unless they
hire someone to do it,
who has experienced do it
and doing it. And who
does it for a living,
what Mikey said, you could,
you could spend all day,
you know, writing CSS or,
or designing a site that
you may not be happy
with the end result. And
I think really when someone
has a site, they have
a product that they want
to take that extra step
and they haven't worked with
a designer to improve it.
I think they'll instantly see
the value if they get
a professional to work on
it. So it's really kind
of, you know, convincing them
that, that there are improvements
to be had outside of
just these technical areas of,
of, you know, writing CSS
and laying out the HTML
that there, there is that
element that they can always
enhance whatever it is they
have. Definitely. Definitely. I am
sold. You don't have to
convince me anymore. Hopefully we'll,
we'll convince him listens though,
because I I've, I've enjoyed
talking to you. I've talked
to Jen yang and I
think I've actually coincidentally, you
designed one of the initial
layouts for stack overflow, Virginia,
and works at a cycle
flow as well. And both
of you now on the
podcast, we should have more
designers on the show. Absolutely.
Well, We'll be glad to
come in. Cool. Well, you
can check out jeremy@jeremykratzdotcomandcheckouthisportfolioofworkandyoucanalsoseehisworkonhanselman.com. This
has been another episode. We'll
see you again next week.